# Trade Publication Topic Analysis
Using natural language processing (NLP) to identify new market development opportunities from a trade publication.

## Summary
Building the market knowledge needed to identify new market development opportunities can be costly and time consuming for industrial companies.  There is a large amount of information available at no or little cost on the internet.  Reading through all of it to gather needed insights is time consuming.  It often must be done by costly experts that understand specific technology to be effective.  A method to reduce the volume of information that needs to be read by experts could make this process more efficient.

It is reasonable to assume that topics important to a market will appear more frequently in various platforms on the internet.  Natural language processing (NLP) works well to measure the frequency with which specific combinations of words ("topics") appear in a selection of text ("corpus").  NLP is also effective at identifying changes over time in the frequency of appearance of topics by comparing topic frequency in a particular corpus at different times.  This can be used to determine which topics are new, and which topics are growing in their appearance frequency.  These capabilities allow NLP to be used to identify selections of text that are most important to a market so that these can be focused on to identify insights for development.

Trade publications focus on specific industrial markets and selecting those focused on a market that is thought to be promising for development can be an initial step in choosing text likely to provide insights.  I have some experience/expertise in the industrial adhesives market so I chose this industrial market for the focus of this project.  To support proof of concept, I chose a trade magazine titled "Adhesive & Sealants Industry" as the corpus for the project and decided to use issues (the magazine is published monthly) from the last five years (August 2013 - August 2018).  The goal for the project was to identify topics from the corpus with strong importance (high, consistent frequency) or that are new (appeared only recently) using NLP.

Python code for the project can be found in Jupyter Notebooks in the **Notebooks** folder.  Two notebooks are included, **trade_topic_scraping.ipynb** containing code for scraping text from the internet to serve as the corpus for the project, and **trade_topic_analysis.ipynb** containing code for the NLP analysis.

Presentation slides of the findings from the project can be found in the Presentation folder in pdf format.
